Question 1. Explain What Is A Custom Object In Sales Force?

Answer :

Custom objects are nothing but database tables. It stores data related to your company in Salesforce.com. Once you have defined custom object you can do following things like

Create custom fields
Associate the custom object with other records
In custom related lists, it display the custom object data
For custom object, records track events and tasks
Build page layouts
For the custom object create a custom tab
To analyze custom object data create dashboards and reports
Share your custom tabs, custom apps, custom objects and any other related components

 Mention How Many Relationship Is Included In Sfdc And What Are They?

Answer :

There are two types of relationships

Master detail relationship
Lookup relationship

Mention What Are The Three Types Of Object Relations In Salesforce?

Answer :

Different types of object relations in Salesforce includes

One to many
Many to many
Master detail

 Explain What The Junction Object Is And What Is The Use?

Answer :

Junction objects are used to build many-to-many relationships between objects.  You can take a recruiting application example, where a position for a job can be linked to many candidates and in the same manner a candidate can be linked to the different positions. So, to connect this data model, you need a third party object, this object is referred as junction object.  Here “job application” is the junction object.

When Should You Build Solutions Declaratively Instead Of With Code?

Answer :

As a salesforce best practice, if something can be done using Configurations (Declarative) then its preferred over coding. The declarative framework is optimized for the platform and is always preffered.


What does a lead get converted to in salesforce sales cloud
Account
Campaign
Opportunity
Contact
Cases

Can a formula field be updatable via layouts
Yes
No

How will you setup a validation rules to update field values
via process builder
via automation manager
not a feature of salesforce

Can you prevent a delete of record using validation rules
YEs
No


Which of the following are true

User cann have multirple profiles and permission sets
User can have single profile 
User can have multiple roles
Roles can be assigned to profiles

USer is unable to see a record of a an object to which his profile has access .What are the possible reasons?
User is not have correct role
User is having role but no access to objects
User role is out of scope in hierarchy and OWD of object is set to private
USer role is not assigned the correct profile


Where can sys admin assign page layout
profile
role
record type
Org Level

Which of the following is true?

Custom field can be controller field in hierarchical picklist
Standard field can be controller field in  hierarchical picklist
any field can be controller field in hierarchchical picklist


Field can be made readonly at ?

Field level only
Page layout level

Field is read only,but user is still able to make changes to this ,what is the possible 
reason,which property of profile needs to be checked.


Update read only fields
Edit read only fields
View all modify all

 How To Create Roll-up Summary Field On Lookup Relation?

Answer :

Not possible. Roll-up summary is enabled for only Master —Detail relationship.


What Is Permission Set?

Answer :

Permission sets extend users functional access without changing users profile.

Lx: A user has only read access through profile on custoni object. administrator want to give access Edit and create operations to him without changing the profile. Administrator creates the permission set having edit and creates operation on custom object and assign to that user.


Explain view all modify all permission in a profile and how they affect records access

Which affects records access - choose all that apply
Profiles
Roles
OWD
Permission sets


How Many Ways We Can Made Field Is Required?

Answer :

While creation of field
Validation rules
Page Layout level

What are the different type of OWD settings - 
Private
Public read write
Modify all
Public Read only
Public delete

What are types of sharing
Manual
Criteria based
Apex
Permission based

Are sharing rules retroactive
Yes
No

Are validation rule
REtroactive
YEs
No

Validation rules exists on master detail objects (both) and also has a rollup summary,which validation 
will fire if the child object is updated which affects the roll up
All validation fire
Wrong configuration
Only child validation will fire
Only parent validation will fire



