 Process Automation
 Workflows

		A workflow is an automatic process triggered by specific criteria set when it is created. A workflow rule is the container of this process and can be summed up as an if/then statement.
		
eval criteria:
		When the record is:
			Created  - The rule is evaluated only once, when the record is created.
			Created and every time it is edited - The rule is evaluated multiple times, both when it is initially created and every time it is edited regardless of if the edit pertains to the criteria.
			Created, and any time is is edited to subsequently meet criteria (default) - Allows the rule to be run multiple times. When the record is created, and when edited, but not when the edits are unrelated to the rule criteria.
			
 rule criteria
		Criteria are met - You select a field from the record, an evaluation, and value. e.g. Amount equal or greater than 50,000.
		Formula evaluates to true - You build a formula that evaluates to a boolean value. These can be more complex than a 'simple criteria are met' evaluation.
		
wf actions
		Email Alert - Sends an email to the designated user using an email template.
		Field Update - Updates a field on the record the workflow was invoked on.
		Outbound Message - Sends an outbound message via the soap api.
		Create Task - Creates a task.
		Bonus: Flow Trigger - Launches a flow, this is currently pilot program only.

 Approval Process
 
		Approval processes allow you to create a multi-step process through which you can designate specific actions in reaction to the stage and approval status.
		
actions
		Create Task, Email Alert, Field Update, Outbound Message. These behave identically to the workflow actions of the same name.
		Additionally you can lock or unlock the record in specific steps.
		
steps
		Initial Submission - When the record is submitted for approval, what actions are to be taken.
		Approval steps - We can designate multiple steps each with their own actions.
		Final approval - After it finshes all steps and finally approved, what do we want to have happen?
		Final rejection - After it finishes all steps and finally rejected, what do we want to have happen?
		Recall - If the submission is recalled, what do we want to have happen?

 Process Builder

		Process builder allows you to create automated processes execute upon specific criteria being met. It is similar in this respect to workflows, but has many additional features and enhanced capabilities.
		
process type
		A record change process starts when a record is created or updated.
		An event process starts when a platform event message is received.
		An invocable process starts when something else, like another process, invokes it.
		
 What are the trigger options for when to start a process for a record change process?
		Record created.
		Record created or edited.
		
criteiera
		Conditions are met - the process evaluates specific fields to see if they meet the designated values.
		Formula evaluates to true - a formula built evaluates true, this allows for more complex criteria.
		No Criteria - The actions are always executed.
		Optionally at this point you can also select for it to only evaluate when the record is created or edited to meet criteria.
		
actions
		Create Record - creates a new record using either the values you type or values of related records.
		Invoke Process - invokes an invocable process.
		Create Chatter Post - creates a chatter post on the feed of a user, group, or the record that started the process.
		Use Quick Action - calls a quick action allowing for record creation, updates, or logging calls.
		Work with Quip documents. - create quip documents, chat rooms and folder.
		Launch a flow - launches a flow.
		Send an Email - sends an email through the use of an email alert.
		Send custom notification - sends a custom notification through salesforce.
		Submit a record for approval - submits a record for an approval process. 
		Send a survey - sends an email invitation linking to a survey question.
		Update records - Update the fields of the launching record or related record.
		Call Apex - call an invocable method from an apex class. With this it is essentially possible to do anything possible in salesforce with a process.

apex
		First the class must annotate the method you want to use with @InvocableMethod.
		Select the call apex action and name the action.
		Choose the apex class.
		

		Duplicate rules are administrative tools to automatically detect duplicate records, and determine if they are allowed with warning, or prevented from being created. To determine if a duplicate exists they use matching rules.


		Matching rules specify what and how we check if a duplicate exists. We determine the fields that are checked, and if we check for a exact or fuzzy match.
		

 Flow Builder & Flows

		Flows are a powerful click-not-code tool to perform actions in either your salesforce org or even exernal systems. 
		Two types of flows exist: screen flows, and automlaunched flows.
		
screen flow
		Screen flows are used to automate processes that require user input. Through it we can create guided wizards that take a user through a complex process in a guided experience.
auto launch flow
		When user input is not needed, we can leverage the same powerful capabilities of a flow that can act behind the scenes. Examples can include starting a flow on a button push or through a process.

elements
		Flow elements represent actions that a flow can execute, such as reading/writing data, displaying information through screens, and executing business logic.
		
resource
		Flow resources reference values that can be referenced throughout the flow.
		
builder
		The flow builder is a gui for flow creation. It features a canvas which represents the flow itself, and a toolbox which includes the elements and resources you can use to build the flow.
		

formula field data types
		Checkbox - A boolean value
		Currency - Returns a number in currency format. (Salesforce rounds the result to the nearest even number in tie breaks. 23.5 becomes 24, 22.5 becomes 22.)
		Date
		Date/time
		Number
		Percent
		Text
		Time


		RegEx, or Regular Expressions are a sequence of characters that define a search pattern. This can be used in conjunction with validation rules to ensure things like phone numbers, zip codes, and more match the desired input format.
\

	Service Cloud is a CRM intended for support and service users.


	A case is a customer’s question, feedback, or issue. 
	Support agents can review cases to see how they can deliver better service. 
	Sales reps can use cases to see how they affect the sales process. 
	Responding to cases keeps your customers happy and enhances your brand.


	Assignment rules define conditions that determine how leads or cases are assigned to owners. 
	The rules assign leads and cases to the specified user or queue.

why use queue
	Prioritize and assign records to teams that share workloads. 
	There’s no limit to the number of queues you can create.
	you can choose when queue members receive email notifications.



	Knowledge lets you create and manage a knowledge base with your company information, and securely share it when and where it's needed.

	Ideas allows an organization to create a community which allows users to post and vote on ideas and recommendations. Public or private, you can allow for customers, employees, or partners to collaborate with your company.

	Answers and Chatter Answers were phased out in the spring '18 update. Instead we now have the ability to ask questions via chatter, which allows for similar functionality.

 Data Management
 Data
       clean data
		Complete
			The data should be whole, the more complete the data, the better it is.
		Consistent
			The data needs to be consistent in that the data should all be collected in the way that is expected.
		Current
			Out of date data can lead to issues, so we want to ensure the data is up to date.	
		Unique
			We do not want to have redundancy of data, there is no need to have multiple versions of the same contact for instance instead of a single complete version.	
		Accuracy
			We want to ensure the data is accurate.
		Valid
			Does the data actually fit the needs of the org? 
			
 data completeness
		Required Fields
			
data consistent if
		Validation Rules
		
data is current if
		Workflows and Processes can be used to update fields when relevant things change.


		Duplicate Rules -unique data
		

		data accuracy is achieved using Processes, Paths, and Flows. 
		data.com
		

		

 Validation Tools

		Validation Rules and data.com.
read up difference between import wizard and data loader

		
		Export all will also export reords in the recycle bin, of soft deleted items.
		
		Hard delete bypasses the recycle bin and permanently removes the records.

		

